<h1>Kubernetes: Services</h1>
K8 services enable communication between various components withing and outside of the application. Connections between pods, external resources, or customer accessing the frontend of the application.
 - prereq: pods within a node are attached to an internal network that is inaccessible from the outside, each pod receives an ip from within this internal network. In order to avoid ip duplications with pods in different nodes (mainly hosted on-prem) we need to use some sort of routing service to ensure the pods have different ips from one another.

* Services handle this, as an object in Kubernetes, it listens to the ports on opened on the pods and can manipulate how traffic is direct from the client to the application
* Services are like VMs, so they too have their own IPs, otherwise known as `ClusterIPs`

<h2>Services: NodePort</h2>
* A `NodePort` Service is a type of service that listens to port opened on the pods and forwards this traffic to a port opened on the host machine, in which way you are able to access the application from the Node's Port.
  - In this type of service, 3 ports are involved:
    * `TargetPort`: The port on the Pod, target of traffic, this port can be named in the deployment.yaml      
    * `Port`: The port on Service, handles port forwarding
    * `NodePort`: The Port on the Node(Host) itself, source of traffic
  - `NodePorts` can only be opened in a valid range of `30000 -32767`

* The services uses selectors to match all pods with the specified labels, then marks them as endpoints to forward traffic to
* Ex:

```yml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: nginx
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/name: proxy
spec:
  containers:
  - name: nginx
    image: nginx:stable
    ports:
      - containerPort: 80
        name: http-web-svc
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: myapp-service
  labels:
    component: apiserver
    provider: kubernetes
spec:
  selector: # will serve as the service for ports matching these selectors
    app.kubernetes.io/name: proxy
  type: NodePort
  ports: # multiple of these can be set
  - protocol: TCP
    targetPort: http-web-svc
    port: 80  # if not provided, it will default to targetPort value
    nodePort: 30000 # if not provided, it will default to value in valid range
```

<h2>Services: ClusterIP</h2>
* A `ClusterIP` Service creates a virtual private IP inside a cluster to allow communcation between different services. Such as a service hosting frontend servers and a service hosting backend servers.

```yml
apiVersion: v1 
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: back-end
  labels:
    component: apiserver
    provider: kubernetes
spec:
  selector:
    app: myapp
    type: back-end
  type: ClusterIP
  ports:
  - name: back-end-port-name
    protocol: TCP
    targetPort: 80
    port: 80
```

- This service can now be accessed by other pods, by using the service IP or the service name
<h2>Services: LoadBalancer</h2>
* A `LoadBalancer` Service creates a LB in select CSP, to balance traffic to our application. For on-premise k8 clusters, you'll need tools like MetalLB (installed on the cluster) or you'd need to set up a haproxy to loadbalance traffic (set up outside of the cluster)
  - Using the Native Load Balance, provided by K8 on a supported CSP, will handle the LB creation for you
  - Using this Service type on unsupported platforms, like virtual box, will have the same effect as using a NodePort service. It will have no external LB configuration

```yml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: front-end-lb
  labels: 
    component: apiserver
    provider: kubernetes
spec:
  selector:
    app: myapp
    type: front-end
  type: LoadBalancer
   ports:
   - name: front-end-lb-port
     protocol: TCP
     targetPort: 80
     port: 80
     nodePort: 30000
```

